[[!meta author="Manoj"]]
[[!meta license="GPL"]]
[[!tag debian]]

There have been various people positing that Debian is a
democracy. It's not, thank god. Yes, we do occasionally vote on
issues, but that does not a democracy make.

Another theory often advanced (usually as a counter to the democracy
theory) is that Debian is a meritocracy. Again, this is not true: as
above, there are shades of truth (as in merit, in theory, is held in
reverence in Debian).

<!-- more -->

Why is it not a democracy? Well, we do not decide on issues based on
popularity (else we'd be distributing windows share-ware). We make
decisions based on technical merits, and principles we have agreed on
(the Social Contract, for one). A developer is the Czar for the
packages maintained by him/her, for example. 

Decisions, for the most part, are taken by those who do the work (in
flex, and fvwm, I have made decisions that are fairly unpopular with
the user base, but, in my opinion, the correct ones). A developer has
control over his or her package. The NM team decides to accept (or
not) applicants -- but not through GR's. The DPL decides who should
get funded for debconf -- in consultation with other people, but not
via a vote. In a sense, Debian is a volunteerocracy -- <strong>Those
who do, rule.</strong>

Why do I say it is not a meritocracy? Well, there is no evidence that
merit is a gating factor for entry into the project, or a position in
Debian. Sure, a modicum of bare competence and a base demonstration
of judgement is required, both for entry into the project, and for
appointment to a delegate's job; but this is a minimum threshold,
really. The important jobs are fulfilled by people who took it upon
themselves, who went in and started working (my first real package,
kernel-package, was just me getting tired of remembering all the
steps needed to compile kernels, and the resulting kernel images were
quietly accepted after a probation period). So, merit is not the
gating factor -- demonstrating readiness to do the work trumps
ability.

I am sure there are a large number of more meritorious people in the
wings who never stepped up to the plate and volunteered; and they
would lose out to people who stepped up and presented something. We
are a volunteerocracy, not a meritocracy.

Why do I say thank god above? Do we really want Debian to be a
democracy? I am not a domain expert in any but a small subset of
technical topics, and I would hesitate to have my opinion overrule
the domain expert's. And yet that is what going for popularity gives
you. In all but a handful of topics, most of us represent mediocrity,
and only the domain expert represents expertise; decisions by laymen,
as opposed to the experts, lead to mediocrity.

So, do we really want democracy?  Rule by the unwashed masses?
Governance by the least common denominator? Taking the popular route,
over determining the correct one? How can you create the best
distribution ever by bending over backwards to pander to mediocrity?
Would one want to select leaders based on how cute they look, or how
well they kiss babies (which seems to be the basis we pick
politician's by)?

Thanks for listening.

