[[meta author="Manoj"]]
[[meta license="GPL"]]
[[meta title="300, and the history channel perspective."]]
[[tag movies]]

Yes, this is about a movies based on a comic based on a movie from the
50's. And they did a wonderful job of conveying to comic book feel --
and yet, though you could appreciate the abstract, stylized
presentation of the comic, most of the movie still came straight from
Herodotus. The training of the Spartans, the throwing of the Persian
emissaries into a pit and a well -- this cleaving to the historic
details was a pleasant surprise. The history channel presentation is
recommended for the perspective it brings to the tale.

There were some poetic licenses -- the whole bit about a highly placed
Spartan traitor was made out of plain cloth; and the current
convention wisdom is that Leonidas went to Thermopylae because of his
religious beliefs, and conviction about the sacred prophecy of the
oracle at Delphi, not because he thought Persia would destroy Greece
(remember, Xerxes _won_, and sacked Athens).  Indeed, there was little
concept of "Greece" at that point.

Indeed, the whole stick about the last stand at Thermopylae saving
democracy seems suspect -- the stand bloodied Persia's nose, and
delayed them by perhaps 5 days -- in an advance that took the better
part of a year that the Greeks knew about.  No, it was the combination
of Marathon, Thermopylae, Salamis, Plataea -- over the course of half
a century -- that ensure that the no name David of the Greek city
states survived against the Goliath of Persia. And, then, of course,
came the boy wonder out of Macedonia.

Highly recommended.

