[[!meta author="Manoj"]]
[[!meta license="GPL"]]
[[!meta title="Filtering Accuracy: Brown paper bag time"]]
[[!tag spam]]

After posting about
[filtering accuracy](2007/11/05/Filtering_accuracy__58___Hard_numbers)
I got to thinking about the test I was using.  It appeared to me that
there should be no errors in the mails that crm114 had already been
trained upon -- but here I was, coming up with errors when I trained
the css files until there were no errors, and then used a reg exp that
tried to find the accuracy of classification for _all_ the files, not
just new ones. This did not make sense.

The only explanation was that my css files were not properly created
-- and I thought to try an experiment where isntead of trying to throw
my whole corpus as one chunk at a blank css file, I would feed the
corpus in chunks. I cam up with an [initialization
script](/software/misc/init-train.sh.html) to feed my corpus to a
blank css file in 200 mail chunks; and, while it was at it, renumber
the corpus mails (over the years, as I cleaned the corpus, gaps had
appeared in the numbering). I have also updated the 
[retraining script](/software/misc/re-learn-crm114.html)

Voila. I am getting a new set of css files which do not appear to show
any errors for mails crm114 has already learned about -- in other
words, for mails it has seen, the accuracy is now 100%, not 99.5% as
it was a couple of days ago.

While it is good news in that my classification accuracy is better
than it was last week; the bad news is that I no longer have concrete
number on accuracy for crm114 anymore -- the mechanism used now gives
100% accuracy all the time.  The funny thing is, I recall going
through this analysis a couple of years ago, where I predicted that
one could only check for accuracy with a test corpus that had the same
characteristics as real mail inflow, and which had not been used for
learning. That wold mean I would have classified testing corpus that
could improve the efficiency of my filter, but was not being used to
provide accuracy numbers -- I have gone for improving the filter, at
the cost of knowing how accurate they actually are. 
