[[meta author="Manoj"]]
[[meta license="GPL"]]
[[meta title="I am now an Ikiwiki user!"]]
[[tag software misc]]

[[template id="icon" icon="/media/icons/ikiwiki_button.png" alt="Ikiwiki"]]

Well, this is first post. I have managed to migrate my blog over to
Ikiwiki, including all the historical posts.  The reasons for
migration was that development on my older blogging mechanism,
[Blosxom](http://sourceforge.net/projects/blosxom/ "Blosxom"), entered
a hiatus, though recently it has been revived on sourceforge.  I like
the fact that [IkiWiki](http://ikiwiki.kitenet.net/ "IkiWiki") is
based on a revision control system, and that I know the author pretty
darned well :-).

One of my primary requirements for the migration was that I be able to
replicate all the functionality of my existing Blog, and this included
the look and feel (which I do happen to like, despite wincing I see
from some visitors to my pages) of my blog. This meant replicating the
page template and CSS from my blog.  

I immediately ran into problems: for example, my CSS markup for my
blogs was based on being able to markup components of the date of the
entry (day, day of week, month, etc) and achieve fancy effects; and
there was no easy way to use preexisting functionality of
[IkiWiki](http://ikiwiki.kitenet.net/ "IkiWiki") to present the
information to the page template. Thus was born the *varioki* plugin;
which attempts to provide a means to add variables for use in ikiwiki
templates, based on variables set by the user in the ikiwiki
configuration file. This is fairly powerful, allowing for uses like:

        varioki => {
          'motto'    => '"Manoj\'s musings"',
          'toplvl'   => 'sub {return $page eq "index"}',
          'date'     => 'sub { return POSIX::strftime("%d", gmtime((stat(srcfile($pagesources{$page})))[9])); }'
          'arrayvar' => '[0, 1, 2, 3]',
          'hashvar'  => '{1, 1, 2, 2}'
        },


The next major stumbling block was archive browsing for older
postings; Blosxom has a nice calendar plugin that uses a calendar
interface to let the user navigate to older blog postings.  Since I
really liked the way this looks, I set about scratching this itch as
well; and now ikiwiki has attained parity vis. a vis. calendar plugins
with Blosxom.

The calendar plugin, and the archive index pages, led me start
thinking about the physical layout of the blog entries on the file
system.  Since the [tagging
mechanism](http://ikiwiki.kitenet.net/plugins/tag.html) used in
ikiwiki does not depend on the location in the file system (an
improvement over my Blosxom system), I could layout the blog postings
in a more logical fashion.  I ended up taking Roland Mas' advice and
arranging for the blog postings to be created in files like:

     blog/year/month/date/simple_title.mdwn

The archives contain annual and monthly indices, and the calendar
front end provides links to recent postings and to recent monthly
indices. So, a few additions to the arch hook scripts, and perhaps an
script to automatically create the directory structure for new posts,
and to automatically create annual and monthly indices as needed, and
I'll have a low threshold of effort blogging work flow for blog entries,
and I might manage to blog more often than the two blog postings I
have had all through the year so far.
