[[!meta author="Manoj"]]
[[!meta license="GPL"]]
[[!meta title="Theming Emacs"]]
[[!tag software]]

* * * * *
**Update** Added screenshots
* * * * *


I spend a lot of time working in front of a screen (many hours in a
dimly lit room) and eye fatigue is an issue. A consistent color
scheme, especially one which is easy on the eyes, is important -- and
it also helps to have way of doing that where the directives are not
all scattered all over my Emacs-lisp setup. Enter 
[Emacs Color Themes](https://gna.org/projects/color-theme),
available as the Debian package [[!debpkg emacs-goodies]]. Aided with a 
[HSL color picker](http://www.workwithcolor.com/hsl-color-schemer-01.htm),
I set around trying to create a dark color theme for Emacs.

It does not help that I am blue-green color blind, so subtle
variations are often lost on me. I do want to use color contrast to
increase productivity, but I also want to avoid the jarring angry
fruit salad look, and so I am in the process of crafting a logical
color scheme that is high contrast enough for me, without being too
unpleasing.

[[!img images/groups.png size=182x206 class="floatr" alt="Gnus
Groups"]] In circumstances where there a lot of related faces that can
be viewed, for example, the Gnus group buffer, consistent and logical
color choices are the only sane option. Gnus groups can be news
(bluish) or mail (greenish), have states (large number of unread
messages, normal, and empty). The large number unread groups have
highest luminosity (appear brighter), and the empty one have lower
luminosity (appear greyer), but have the same hue and saturation.  Sub
states and group priorities are rendered using a color series which
has constant luminosity and saturation, and vary in hue by a constant
separation -- so all the related groups have the same brightness
({mail,news}/{unread,normal,empty}), and a graded selection of
foreground colors.  It sounds more complicated that it looks. The eye
is drawn naturally to the unread groups, and first to the mail, then
USENET groups (which is my preference).


[[!img images/gnus.png class="floatr" size=182x208 alt="Gnus Groups"]]
Similar color variations occur for individual messages in a group;
high scoring messages bubble to the top, and have a higher luminosity.
This color schema has made me slightly faster at reading mail/USENET.
In the message itself, quoted mail messages from different people are
color coordinated, with high contrast between citations that are close
to each other in the hierarchy, so it is less likely that one
misunderstands who said what in a long conversation.

The [resulting scheme](/software/misc/manoj-colors.el.html) covers
programming languages, Gnus, Erc, mail, org-mode, CUA-mode, apt-utils,
bbdb, compilation buffers, changelog mode, diff and ediff, eshell, and
more.  This has allowed me to consolidate all my color directives into
a single file, and is in a format that might be usable by others.  See
the [wiki page](http://www.emacswiki.org/cgi-bin/wiki?ColorTheme) for
details about how to use and switch color themes in Emacs.

Enjoy.
