[[meta author="Manoj"]]
[[meta license="GPL"]]
[[tag debian]]

I have talked <a href="http://www.golden-gryphon.com/blog/manoj/debian/manoj.2004.06.03.golden_gryphon">earlier</a>
about the crumbling consensus in Debian, which was nice, but did not
delve deep enough into the reasons for the crumbling tendency to try
to arrive at an consensus.

I can see bunches of people jumping up and down screaming
<q>communication! communication! communication!</q>. Yes, but; have
people complaining about lack of communication ever looked for a
cause why communication in the project has deteriorated (and no,
frequent flame--fests do not count as communication)?

<!-- more -->

The facile explanation is that people who fail to communicate, or
fail to respond, are either overly busy (which does not hold water
since the people examples being flouted are actually doing visible
and often extensive work), just plain lazy (again, easily refuted),
impossible to communicate with (and there are equal examples of
people who have no problem communicating with the same people), or
just plain secretive and malicious and holding a grudge against
people. 

With my experience with people in the project, I find it hard to
credit the theory that people are strongly for a hidden, secret big
boy club in Debian. Despite recurrent and no longer funny references
(always unsubstantiated) about a Debian Cabal, I have not yet found
any actual instantiation of the so called super secretive cabal. I
know these folks, guys, and I am not buying a super secretive cabal.

But surely there must be some fire under all this smoke, right? Yes,
but not in the manner that people think, I suspect.

I think the same phenomena is at work that causes lack of consensus
efforts in Debian; and the root cause is partially the growth of the
project (resulting in people no longer being acquainted with the
other participants), and the perception of Debian as an faceless
institution, rather than a convivial set of people trying to have fun
and put together a distribution focussed on excellence.

I say this, since I have seen the growing tendency to treat classes
of volunteers as faceless, nameless, institutions: we talk about
DAM's, ftp-masters, list-masters -- anonymous, faceless,
institutions that one may then chastise with little need to cater to
their feeling (since when do institutions have feelings?). This is a
similar phenomena to people treating other cars far more rudely than
they would if they were talking to the driver face to face. The
increasing hostility, expressed as increasingly pointless flame wars,
and increasingly hostile mails to the people in visible positions in
Debian (often verging to obnoxiously rude demands), whittle away at
the motivation of the people doing additional work in Debian beyond
their packages.

Now, given that most developers do not care to do more than cater to
their own packages (the DPL has said several teams, including
security, are overworked, and have been asking for volunteers. Policy
has been looking for new blood as well, and I have been lucky enough
to find one person who actually started out by doing the scut work,
rather than ask for spoon feeding and a gilt-edg4ed invitation) -- we
have a few people putting in far more labour into the project, above
and beyond the talk of maintaining packages.  The tasks these people
perform is becoming increasingly thankless, to the point a few have
taken to ignoring the most unpleasant communication in the interests
of sanity. Since they respond still to nicer communications, it may
appear there is a cabal -- but this is basic human nature, avoiding
experiences that have, in the past, proven to be unpleasant and
unproductive. 

So what do I propose? The same thing I proposed before: I suggest that
we try not to lose sight of who we are fundamentally: we are a group
of people who have found common cause to volunteer our time to make
the best OS out there. Treat developers like people. I would like to
think we are a bunch of folks having fun -- and working together for
what is still a common goal. Look at the big picture. Don't let the
end goal be lost in the petty details.

