[[!meta author="Manoj"]]
[[!meta license="GPL"]]
[[!meta title="Adventures in the windy city"]]
[[!tag travel]]

I have just come back from a half week stay at the Hilton Indian Lakes
resort (which is the second time in a month that I have stayed at a
golf resort and club and proceeded to spend 9 hours a day in a
windowless conference room).  On Thursday night, an ex Chicago native
wanted to show us the "traditional" Chicago pizza (which can be
delivered, half cooked, and frozen, via Fed-Ex, anywhere in the lower
48). Google Maps to the rescue!  One of the attendees had a car, and
we piled in and drove to the nearest pizzeria. It was take out only.
We headed to the next on the list, again to be met with
disappointment; since making the pizza takes the best part of an hour,
and we did not want to be standing out in a chilly parking lot while
they made out pizza.  So, I strongly advocated going to *Tapas
Valencia* instead, since I have never had tapas before.

Somewhat to our disappointment, they served tapas only as an
appetizer, and had a limited selection; so we ended up ordering one
tapas dish (I had beef kabobs with a garlic horseradish sauce and
caramelized onions), and my very first paella (paella valencia), with
shrimp, mussels, clams, chicken, and veggies. We ate well, and headed
back to the hotel. As we parked, and started for the gate, I realized
I no longer had my wallet with me -- so back to the restaurant we
went. The waiter had not found the wallet. Nor had the busboy. The
owner/hostess suggested perhaps it was in the parking lot? So we all
went and combed the parking lot -- once, twice.

At this point I am beginning to think about the consequences --- I
can't get home, because I can't get into the airport, since I have no
ID. I have no money, but Judy can't wire the money to me via western
union -- because I have no ID.  I need money to buy greyhound tickets
to get home on a bus ... and then there is the cancelling credit
cards, etc.  Panic city.

While I was on my fourth circuit of the parking lot, the owner went
back -- and checked the laundry chute.  I had apparently carelessly
draped the napkin over my wallet when paying the tab, and walked away
-- and the busboy just grabbed all the napkins, wallet and all, and
dumped it down the chute.  Judy suggests I carry an alternate form of
ID and at least one credit card in a *different* location than my
wallet for future trips.

If that was not excitement enough, yesterday, I got on the plane home,
uneventfully enough.  We took off, and I was dozing comfortably, when
there were two loud bags, and the plane juddered and lister to the
port. There was a smell of burning rubber, and we stopped gaining
altitude. After making a rough about turn with the left wing down, the
pilot came on the intercom to say "We just lost our left engine, and
we are returning to O'Hare. We should be in the ground in two
minutes". Hearing the "in", a guy up front started hyperventilating,
and his wife was rubbing his back.  My feelings were mostly of
exasperation, I had just managed to get myself situated comfortably,
and now lord only knows when we would get another aircraft. When we
landed, the nervous dude reached over and kissed his wife like he had
just escaped the jaws of death. And he asked if any of us knew
statistics, and if we were fine now. (I was tempted to state that
statistics are not really predictive, but hey). It was all very
pretty, with six fire engines rushing over and spraying us with foam
and all.  When we got off the plane the nervous dude headed straight
to some chairs in the terminal, and said his legs would not carry him
further.  He did make it to the replacement plane later, though.

Turns out it was a bird flying into the engine that caused the
flameout. Well, at least I have a story to tell, though it delayed
getting home by about three hours.

