[[meta author="Manoj"]]
[[meta license="GPL"]]
[[tag software]]

It is funny that people say that no one has written software that does
Beysian filtering in order to reject Spam at the SMTP level, just when
I felt like writing up my [[shortcut debpkg="mimedefang"]] setup. I
am of the school of thought that the only acceptable method of dealing
with spam is to reject it at the SMTP protocol level. To accomplish
this, I run [[shortcut debpkg="crm114"]] and
[[shortcut debpkg="spamassassin"]] from my
<em>mimedefang-filter</em>, which runs as a <em>milter</em> while my
[[shortcut debpkg="sendmail"]] is processing mail. I also do
conditional grey listing, more on that below.

The reason for running two different Spam detection mechanisms is that
while one or the other is often fooled and mis-categorizes mail, the
score or confidence level of such mis-categorization is low, and the
mechanism that is not fooled enables the combined system to do the
right thing in most cases. I tend to quarantine and keep even the
messages I reject for about a month, and do spot checks, so out of
roughly a 800 mails a day volume, I get about one or two spam messages
a day, and did not ever reject a mail I manually would classify as ham
in the 6 months n which I double checked every decision taken by my
system, and in the spot checks I continue to perform. While this is
not as good a record as the author of  [[shortcut debpkg="crm114"]]
reports, it is good enough for me.

The grey listing: since I try to be conservative, and opt to lean
towards not discarding any email that is legitimate at the expense of
not trapping all spam, and since I do not discard any mail I accept
unread based on an automated decision, I was getting more Spam than I
cared for still. So, I added the grey listing layer -- but only for
mail that were not ambiguously spam or viruses (which are rejected),
or ham, which are accepted for delivery. Most of the Spam that was
slipping through came from the grey area.  So, I implemented grey
listing only for these mails. 

Grey listing happens on a triplet of the class C domain of the senders
IP, the sender, and recipient. A grey listed email encounters
processing problems, and is temporarily rejected with a 503 for 30
minutes, and then retries are allowed through for 4 hours, in which
case the triplet is white-listed for 35 days (catches monthly
announcement messages). Known Spam resets the white-listing, and
retrying past the window does too. 

Doing it this way, known good correspondents suffer no delay,
unambiguous mail from strangers flows right through, and I improve my
filters based on the results all the time, so my discriminator
improves. 

My [filter](/software/misc/mimedefang-filter.html) is available for
examination.  See also [the older
posting](blog/manoj/software/misc/manoj.2005.05.21.golden_gryphon),
like the time honoured tradition of [/.](http://slashdot.org/), this
posting is a duplicate.
