[[meta author="Manoj"]]
[[meta license="GPL"]]
[[tag misc]]

I have been using uml (actually, [[debpkg pbuilder-uml]])
for a while to build my packages and ensure that the build
dependencies were sane. Unfortunately, in sometime in the last month
or so, something broke: now uml just hangs with the lines
<pre>
Initializing stdio console driver
Netdevice 0
</pre>

Since I have wanted to get back to playing with
<strong>SELinux</strong>, and since Russel Coker has deprecated 2.4
based LSM patches ( [[debpkg kernel-patch-2.4-lsm]]), I
decided to try to compile my own 2.6 based UML, especially since I
heard tell on IRC that it was feasible to do so. Thats when the fun
started. 

<!-- more -->

Well, it started ok. Google quickly found the <a
href="http://user-mode-linux.sourceforge.net/">user mode linux home
page</a>, from where I down loaded the UML patches. People on IRC
pointed me to <a
href="http://www.user-mode-linux.org/~blaisorblade/">updated host and
skas patches</a> for the 2.6.7 kernels. The patches applied, though
with some fuzz.

There was some initial confusion (you really need to specify
<code>ARCH=um</code> all over, even when configuring cleaning -- took
me a few minutes of confusion to figure that out). Then the kernel
refused to compile. I tried all kinds of different host patches, but
to no avail. Finally, I had to go on <em>#uml</em> for help, and I
was told to turn off <strong>CONFIG_HIGH_MEM</strong>. That got the
kernel compiled.

But then I kept getting the hangs while trying to get an initial network
connection. Turns out that I had taken the dictates of the HOWTO too
literally, which tell you to take the defaults. That is fine for 2.4
uml's -- for 2.6 uml's, the defaults do not compile in anything. I
compiled in all kinds of network methods.

Compile, run, and get a hang trying to get an initial
console. Hmm. Go back and compile in input methods. Does not hang now
-- it just warns it can't open an initial console (though it pops up
xterms all over. This time it is the lack of a devfs that rootstrap
needs. Compile in devfs.

And now things segfault in the UML since the libc is trying to get
native posix threads library, not yet supported in UML. I tried all
kinds of methods trying to set LD_ASSUME_KERNEL=2.4.17, but to no
avail (Look at <a
href="http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=user-mode-linux-devel&amp;m=107450100910873&amp;w=2">this
thread</a> on the uml devel list.) 

I give up. Getting a 2.6.7 UML running is too hard, and I am
certainly not a kernel compilation newbie. I gave a go to the 2.4.26
kernel based UML with the latest patches and all (still on a 2.6.7
host with SKAS3), and the uml does not even start. And the 2.4.26 UML
would not have SELINUX in it, so my motivation is at an ebb. (or
nadir, really).
