[[meta author="Manoj"]]
[[meta license="GPL"]]
[[tag misc]]


No longer having an excuse for not creating my web site (researched
a ISP, check; set up machine, check; ran through other items on the
to do list; check), I natually had had to create new ones.
Thus I embarked on a long process of educating myself about colour
theory. It was an interesting journey. I had never understood the
horse shoe shaped chart the used for colour calibrations; I have a lot
to learn. And all the theory in the world does not make it easier for
me to select a color scheme that does not suck.

The pages I ran into fell into four categories; those that talked
about <a href="/software/misc/color-links.html#theory">Color Theory and
Physics</a>, a very scant few that dealt with 
<a href="/software/misc/color-links.html#design">design</a>, lots of
<a href="/software/misc/color-links.html#schemes">practical</a> web page
construction sites that went into detail about color schemes and
tutorials, and a bunch of <a href="/software/misc/color-links.html#math">math
stuff</a>. Hopefully these shall be useful to someone.

The grand culmination of all this research was a 
<a href="/download/gen_color.pl">perl script</a>
that takes a color in hex notation, and generates a color report --
for example. here is a <a href="/software/misc/dee3ff.html">report
for #DEE3FF</a>, which is the basis for one of the themes for this page.
Of course, the generated page, though very nice in telling me how I
can create a color scheme based on my initial choice of a basis
color, did not actually help --- since the colors initially selected
clashed wildly with the graphic at the top. I had to scrap the
initial choices and start over, though having the program made the
process less painful than it would have been.


I need to polish up the perl script, and flesh out the descriptions
of the links it creates, and perhaps add more command line options,
or stuff. bling-bling is always important, especially for code.

