[[!meta author="Manoj"]]
[[!meta license="GPL"]]
[[!tag spam ]]

I have been fairly comfortable with my current mail filtering
solution. Unlike some other blogs on [Planet](http://planet.debian.org/),
when last I was doing exhaustive checks, I had not had a false
positive in six months (now I just do random spot checks). The false
negatives creep up from a few a week to a few a day (with a mail feed
of about 1k emails a day). And the stuff that is classified as a
definite spam is `REJECT`ed (I do keep a copy), which means that a
legitimate correspondent would have an idea something went wrong
(unless they are ignoring such bounces form their own
`MAILER-DAEMON`). 

Part of the reason for this satisfactory performance is that I use a
layered approach, with several tools playing off each other,
ameliorating each others mistakes.  Admittedly, this took painful
training -- I created a `testcrm` user, and bounced a copy of every
mail I got to it using a `.forward`. Then, over a course of two
months, I would painstakingly go over the classification, training on
error, until the failure rates dropped to levels I felt comfortable
with, and moved the CRM114 and Spamassassin configuration over for my
own use.

I recently added a hand crafted [Greylisting][] implementation to
[MIMEDefang][] -- in good MIMEDefang tradition, this is a heavily
tweaked version of an [implementation][] on the mailing [list][],
using PostgreSQL. I have modified it to not greylist every single new
email that comes my way, but to only greylist stuff that CRM114 and
Spamassassin have been unable to classify strongly as Spam or
ham. mail that has been strongly classified already, in turn, affects
greylisting. 

Here is the <a href="/download/greylist.sql">SQL code</a> for the
implementation, and the 
<a href="/software/misc/mimedefang-filter.html">mimedefang-filter</a>
itself, showing how I integrate CRM114 and Spamassassin along with
greylisting in a Sendmail Milter.

Have fun.
[Greylisting]: http://projects.puremagic.com/greylisting/
[MIMEDefang]: http://packages.debian.org/mimedefang
[list]: http://lists.roaringpenguin.com/mailman/listinfo/mimedefang
[implementation]: http://lists.roaringpenguin.com/pipermail/mimedefang/2004-June/023043.html
