[[meta author="Manoj"]]
[[meta license="GPL"]]
[[tag debian]]

I am not the only one to be struck with the realization that there is
very little effort at building consensus going on in Debian of
late. Positions are presented, the active participants rapidly become
polarized, and things rapidly head to counting hands; the largest of
the polarized camps then carries the day. This certainly is not how
things used to be.

And it is not as if the absence of an effort to come to a rough
consensus has made the lists any less acrimonious; so this reduced
tendency to enter into a dialogue with people that disagree with one
has not made the lists any friendlier.

I think a couple of otherwise useful institutions have contributed to
this malaise; the first is the <a href="http://www.debian.org/devel/constitution">constitution</a>.
Though accepted with relief and absolute unanimity (this is the only
unanimous vote we have ever had), it has its flaws: it is written in
pseudo-legalese, which practically invites picayune nitpicking and
contentious debate over minor points of order. We spend far more time
debating over the form of the trees, and miss the forest.  At the time
the constitution was being crafted, we were reeling from absolutely
any rules governing conduct and any delineation of powers of people in
the project, we had an informally defined Project leader, and we
probably did not submit the constitution to the review it required, so
starved were we for any semblance of order.

The second is stems from an constitutionally defined process, the
general resolution: though something like a GR mechanism is a must
for a project the size of Debian, the facility with which one can
vote on multiple options simultaneously has lead to people just
throwing up amendments that they like, and brute forcing the most
popular amendment through a vote. There is no effort to compromise,
and no effort to ameliorate the 
<a href="http://www.victorianweb.org/philosophy/mill/liberty.html">tyranny
of the majority</a>.  There is no effort to even begin to find a
common solution, instead people seem to be offended if an option
exactly matching their sentiments is not on the ballot.

Added to the growing unease about the lack of communication or
openness in the organization (with the vague muttering about <q>the cabal</q>
in Debian), this lack of communication (which is what this tendency
not to convince the rest of the project of the merits of one's ideas
is, really) leads to us making flawed decisions -- and then
scrambling to put Humpty Dumpty together again.

So what is to be done?  I suggest that we try not to lose sight of
who we are fundamentally: we are a group of people who have found
common cause to <span class="underline">volunteer</span> our time to
make the best OS out there. I would like to think we are a bunch of
folks having fun -- and working <em>together</em> for what is still
a common goal. Look at the big picture. Don't let the end goal be
lost in the petty details.
