[[meta author="Manoj"]]
[[meta license="GPL"]]
[[tag debian]]

Suppose I have a set of Trade Marks, all legally set up and
registered. I write up some software, and I am so enamored of my Marks
that I intertwine them with every bit of my code (hey, they look
pretty, OK, which is why I make them my Marks). Indeed, the effort of
ripping them out would be essentially the same as rewriting the
code. I, then, being the free software guy that I am, license the code
under the MIT license.

However, I do love my marks -- so I have an aggressive trade mark
enforcement policy, and I actively pursue usage of my marks by anybody
unless they have approval from me -- and I don't allow them to use my
mark if they have modified my code (I mean, who knows what butchery of
my mark and my reputation shall then ensue?)

Should this piece of software be considered free by Debian? While the
freedom to modify and distribute the software is effectively been taken
away from the users of my software, there are those who argue that the
software is free, since the freedom has been taken away by  Trade Mark
law, and not copyright law. By a strict reading of the letter of the
[DFSG][dfsg], they claim that since only copyright licenses are
mentioned, any other abrogation of freedom does not count. This is
wrong. 

The bottom line is whether the users have the freedom to modify the
software, not exactly _how_ the restriction of freedom was
achieved. One should be looking at the freedoms, the so called
**spirit** of the social contract, and not a strict interpretation of
the exact wording of what is supposed to be a guideline, anyway (and
yes, I know that the _guideline_ argument has lent itself to abuse in
times past).

[dfsg]: http://www.debian.org/social_contract
