[[meta author="Manoj"]]
[[meta license="GPL"]]
[[tag software software/debian]]

I have been thinking about informally going through NM (perhaps with
an AM who wants some practice) for a while now (and have been
procrastinating about it like many real-life DD candidates :-).  I have
planned on using Devotee (DEbian VOTe EnginE) as the package I use to
get through NM. So, pursuant to packaging Devotee, I am trying to add
a test suite to the package. In order to run a decent test, I need a
set of ballots -- signed ballots -- at least some of which are signed
by keys in the Debian key-ring. I have put together a dummy vote on my
own box, with the topic being voted upon being <em>What is your
favorite color of the rainbow?</em>. 
<a href="http://people.debian.org/~terpstra/message/20041023.082149.9d298492.en.html">Here</a> is the ballot.  Please note that any emailed
ballot is likely to end up in a GPL'd package, open for all the world
to see, so please consider that before voting. Oh, and the
interesting 
<a href="http://www.golden-gryphon.com/~vote/rainbow.html">stats are here</a>.

<!-- more -->

So, why am I embarking on this strange course of going through NM even
though I am already a Debian developer? Well, I've been in the project
since well before there was a new maintainer process.  I just felt
like contributing, and, one day, just
<a href="http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel/1995/11/msg00343.html">emailed</a>
the devel list, and I was in. No checks, no key signatures required
(not even a key was needed, unless my memory is failing me). I have a
theoretical knowledge of what NM entails, but no real gut feeling for
what the various stages feel like, nor how hard they are to get
through.

I have always wanted to contribute to the NM effort, but I have never
felt comfortable with trying to change -- or even participate as an
account manager -- with so little understanding of what an applicant
is going through.

One of the concerns with me trying to go through NM is that I would be
taking valuable resources away from the list of real candidates who
are stuck in the queue, and mostly for my own selfish
reasons. However, I have been assured by current AM's that adding
another candidate to their list would not significantly alter their
workload, so I have decided to proceed.

So please, do help develop a test suite for Devotee by voting for your
favorite color. Pretty soon I shall be looking for a sponsor for
Devotee, and an advocate.
