[[!meta author="Manoj"]]
[[!meta license="GPL"]]
[[!meta title="Eragon"]]
[[!tag movies]]

I liked the book.  Sure, it is "The Lord of the Rings" meets "Star
Wars", but, the book had a nice flow -- and it was written by a
fifteen year old, fer gawds sake. The very fact that he can turn out a
page turner of a book when others of his age can't string together a
grammatical sentence spelled correctly is amazing. Overall,
derivative, unoriginal, and simplistic though the book is, it has an
original charm -- a very good book for children, and one that adults
can read through as well. 

So I went to this movie with high hopes. What a let down. This was
merely a notch above the Beowulf debacle. Lack luster performances,
bland, drudge of a movie, with all kinds of interesting elements and
nuances from the book removed. Crude, unimaginative, ham handed
performances all around. The plot line, which did not follow the book,
was dumbed down, there were implications that the Elven princess was a
potential love interest (faugh), and the refreshing pace of the book
fell off to a plodding soporific caricature. It is an offense to the
book, and to the author. 

I was going to point out the differences between the movie and the
book; and why they difference made the movie worse, but after 30 or so
items this post would have gotten to be too big.  And, having written
it, I have the release of the rant, so I no longer _have_ to include
it here. Anyway, Wikipedia says that the film came in at #235 in the
all time worldwide box office chart but was met with dismal critical
reviews, scoring only a 16% composite score on Rotten Tomatoes

I feel sorry for you if you suffered through this, as did I.
