[[meta author="Manoj"]]
[[meta license="GPL"]]
[[meta title="The movie vaguely resembling Beowulf: an IMAX 3d experience"]]
[[tag Movies]]


This should really be titled "A movie vaguely representing Beowulf, but
all sexed up with various salubrious elements".  Hrothgar was treated
much better in the original; and all the blatant and gratuitous
sexuality brought in into the movie was a turn off.  But then, I might
be in the minority of the audience who had any familiarity with the
poem.

The characters in the movie seemed two dimensional caricatures (the
only compelling performance was from Grendel's mother).  And the
changes made to the story line also lost the prowling menace of the
latter years of the king of the Geats.

After watching Hollywood debacles like this one, I am driven to wonder
about why Hollywood writers seem to think they can so improve upon
the work of writers whose story has stood the test of time. Making
Beowulf into a boastful liar and cheat (even in the tale of the sea
monsters -- his men imply that that they knew their lord was a liar)
-- in an age where honor and battle prowess were everything -- I mean,
what were the producers thinking?

Most certainly not a movie I am going to recommend.

I had not researched the movie much before I went into the show, and
it was a surprise to me to see that this was an animated movie a la
"Final Fantasy", and while I was impressed with the computer graphics
(reflections in general, and reflections of ripples in the water were
astounding), the not a cartoon but not a realistic movie experience
was a trifle distracting, and detracted from telling the tale.

I like IMAX 3d, and the glasses are improving.
